.TH "dnf.plugin.system\-upgrade" "8" "October 21, 2015" "0.4.1" ""

.SH NAME
.PP
dnf system\-upgrade \- upgrade a system to a new major release

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dnf system\-upgrade download \-\-releasever
.I VERSION
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B dnf system\-upgrade reboot
.br
.B dnf system\-upgrade clean
.br
.B dnf system\-upgrade log
.RI [ NUMBER ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]dnf system\-upgrade\f[] can be used to upgrade a Fedora system to a new
major release. It replaces \f[B]fedup\f[] (the old \f[I]Fed\f[]ora
\f[I]Up\f[]grade tool); for backward compatibility it accepts \f[B]fedup\f[]
command\-line options whenever possible.
.PP
\f[B]dnf system\-upgrade\f[] accepts the following commands:
.TP
.B download
Downloads everything needed to upgrade to a new major release.
.TP
.B reboot
Prepares the system to perform the upgrade, and reboots to start the upgrade.
This can only be used after the \f[B]download\f[] command completes
successfully.
.TP
.B clean
Remove previously\-downloaded data.
This happens automatically at the end of a successful upgrade.
.TP
.B log
Used to see a list of boots during which an upgrade was attempted, or show
the logs from an upgrade attempt.
The logs for one of the boots can
be shown by specifying one of the numbers in the first column.
Negative numbers can be used to number the boots from last to first.
For example, \f[B]log -1\f[] can be used to see the logs for the last
upgrade attempt.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-releasever= VERSION
REQUIRED. The version to upgrade to.
Sets \f[I]$releasever\f[] in all enabled repos.
Usually a number, or \f[B]rawhide\f[].
.TP
.B \-\-distro\-sync
Behave like \f[B]dnf distro\-sync\f[]: always install packages from the
new release, even if they are older than the currently\-installed
version. This is the default behavior.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-downgrade
Behave like \f[B]dnf update\f[]: do not install packages from the new release
if they are older than what is currently installed. This is the opposite of
\f[B]\-\-distro\-sync\f[]. If both are specified, the last option will be used.
.TP
.BI \-\-datadir= DIRECTORY
Save downloaded packages to \f[I]DIRECTORY\f[].
\f[I]DIRECTORY\f[] must already exist.
This directory \f[I]must\f[] be mounted automatically by the system or
the upgrade will not work.
The default is \f[C]/var/lib/dnf/system\-update\f[].

.SH NOTES
.PP
The \f[B]fedup\f[] command is provided as a convenience; it is essentially just
an alias for \f[B]dnf system\-upgrade\f[].
.PP
\f[B]dnf system\-upgrade reboot\f[] does not create a "System Upgrade" boot
item. The upgrade will start regardless of which boot item is chosen.
.PP
Since this is a DNF plugin, options accepted by \f[B]dnf\f[] are also valid
here. See \f[B]dnf\f[](8) for more information.

.SH BUGS
.PP
Upgrading from install media (e.g. a DVD or .iso file) currently requires the
user to manually set up a DNF repo and fstab entry for the media.

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Typical upgrade usage
.EX
dnf system\-upgrade download \-\-releasever 23
dnf system\-upgrade reboot
.EE
.SS Show logs from last upgrade attempt
.EX
dnf system-upgrade log \-1
.EE

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
Bugs should be filed here:
.IP
https://bugzilla.redhat.com/
.PP
For more info on filing bugs, see the Fedora Project wiki:
.IP
https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/How_to_file_a_bug_report
.br
https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Bugs_and_feature_requests
.PP
Please include \f[C]/var/log/dnf.log\f[] and the output of
\f[B]dnf system\-upgrade log -1\f[] (if applicable) in your bug reports.
.PP
Problems with dependency solving during download are best reported
to the maintainers of the package(s) with the dependency problems.
.PP
Similarly, problems encountered on your system after the upgrade completes
should be reported to the maintainers of the affected components.
In other words: if (for example) KDE stops working, it's best if you report
that to the KDE maintainers.

.SH SEE ALSO
dnf(8),
dnf.conf(5),
journalctl(1)
.SS Project homepage
https://github.com/rpm-software-management/dnf-plugin-system-upgrade

.SH AUTHORS
Will Woods <wwoods@redhat.com>
